oh hello my name is Simone you know how
people tell you if you get nervous went
onstage picture people in the audience
naked like it's this thing that's
supposed to make you feel better but I
was thinking picturing all of you naked
in 2018 feels kind of weird and wrong
like we're working really hard on moving
past stuff like that so we need a new
method of dealing with if you get
nervous on stage and I realized that
what I'd really like is that I can look
at you as much as you're looking at me
just to like even things out a little
bit so if I had way more eyeballs than
we'd all be really comfortable right so
in preparation for this talk I made
myself a shirt it's a googly eyes
it took me 14 hours and 227 googly eyes
to make this shirt and being able to
look at you as much as you're looking at
me it's actually only half of the reason
I made this the other half is being able
to do this so I do a lot of things like
this I see a problem and I invent some
sort of solution to it for example
brushing your teeth like it's this thing
we all have to do it's kind of boring
and nobody really likes it if there were
only 7 year-olds in the audience they'd
be like yes so what about if you had a
machine that could do it for you
I call it uh I call it the toothbrush
helmet
so my toothbrush helmet is recommended
by zero out of ten dentists and it
definitely did not revolutionize the
world of dentistry but it did completely
change my life because I finished making
this tube slash helmet three years ago
and after finished making it I went into
my living room and I put up a camera and
I filmed a seven second clip of it
working and by now this is a pretty
standard modern-day fairy tale of girl
posting on the Internet the internet
takes the girl by storm
thousands of men voyage into the
comments sections to ask for her hand in
marriage she ignores all of them starts
to youtube channel and keeps on building
robots since then I've carved up this
little niche for myself on the Internet
as an inventor of useless machines
because as we all know the easiest way
to be at the top of your field is to
choose a very small field
[Music]
so I run a YouTube channel about my
machines and I've done things like
cutting hair with drones
[Music]
- a machine that helps me wake up in the
morning - this machine that helps me
chop vegetables I'm not an engineer I
did not study engineering in school but
I was a super ambitious student growing
up in middle school in high school I had
straight A's and I graduated at the top
of my year on the flip side of that I
struggled with very severe performance
anxiety here's an email I sent to my
brother around that time
you won't understand how difficult it is
for me to tell you to confess this I'm
so freakin embarrassed I don't want
people to think that I'm stupid now I'm
starting to cry - damn and no I did not
accidentally burn our hip parents house
down the thing I'm writing about in the
email and the thing I'm so upset about
is that I got a B on a math test
so something obviously happened between
here and here
one of those things was puberty
beautiful time indeed but moreover I got
interested in building robots and I
wanted to teach myself about hardware
but building things with hardware
especially if you're teaching yourself
is something that's really difficult to
do it has a high likelihood of failure
and moreover it has a high likelihood of
making you feel stupid and that was my
biggest fear at the time so I came up
with a setup that would guarantee
success a hundred percent of the time
with my setup it would be nearly
impossible to fail and that was that
instead of trying to succeed I was going
to try to build things that would fail
and even though I didn't realize it at
the time building stupid things was
actually quite smart because as I kept
on learning about hardware for the first
time in my life I did not have to deal
with my performance anxiety and as soon
as I removed all pressure and
expectations for myself that pressure
quickly got replaced by enthusiasm and
it allowed me to just play so as an
inventor I'm interested in things that
people struggle with it can be small
things or big things or medium-size
things and something like giving a TED
talk presents this whole new set of
problems that I can solve and
identifying a problem is the first step
in my process of building a useless
machine so before I came here I sat down
and I thought of some of the potential
problems I might have in giving this
talk forgetting what to say that people
won't last that's you or even worse that
you'll laugh at the wrong things that
was an okay part to laugh at thank you
or that when I get nervous my hands
start shaking and I'm really
self-conscious about it or that my fly
has been open this entire time and all
of you noticed but I didn't but it's
close so we're all good on that one but
one thing I'm actually really nervous
about is my hands shaking I remember
when I was a kid giving presentations in
school I would have my notes on a piece
of paper and I would put a notebook
between behind the paper
so that people wouldn't be able to see
the paper core very and I give a lot of
talks I know that about half of you in
the audience are probably like building
useless machines is really fun but how
is in any way or form a business and
giving talks is a part of it and the
arrangers always put out a glass of
water for you on stage so you have
something to drink if you get thirsty
and I always so badly want to drink that
water but I don't dare to pick the glass
up because then people might be able to
see that my hands are shaking so what
about a machine that hands you a glass
of water
sold to the nervous grow in the googly
eye shirt actually I need to take this
off because I have a thing
I still don't know what to call this but
I think some sort of like head orbit
device because it rotates this platform
around you and you can put anything on
it you can have like a camera you can
get photos of your entire head like is
really it's a very versatile machine
okay and I have I mean you can put some
snacks on it for example if you want to
have some popcorn here you just just put
a little bit like that and you want to
there's some sacrifices for science to
some some popcorn falling on the floor
do the long way around and then you have
a little hand you need to adjust the
height of it and you just do it by
shrugging as a little hand
I just I just bumped my mic off but I
think I'm good
okay also I need to chew this popcorn so
if you guys could just clap your hands a
little bit more okay so it's like your
own little personal solar system because
I'm a millennial so I want everything to
evolve around me back to the glass of
water that's what we're here for so I
promise I mean it still has it doesn't
have any water in it I'm sorry but um
it's still still need to work on this
machine a little bit because I still
need to pick up the glass and put it on
the platform but if your hands are
shaking a little bit
nobody's gonna notice because you're
wearing a very mesmerizing piece of
equipment so it's we're all good okay Oh
No
get stuck isn't it comforting that even
robots sometimes get stage fright I just
get stuck a little bit very human of
them oh wait let's go back a little bit
and then isn't it a beautiful time to be
alive
so as much as my machines can seem like
simple engineering slapstick I realized
that I stumbled on something bigger than
that it's this expression of joy and
humility that often gets lost in
engineering and for me it was a way to
learn about Hardware without having my
performance anxiety get in the way and I
often get asked if I think I'm ever
going to build something useful and
maybe someday I will but the way I see
it I already have because I've built
myself this job and it's something that
I could never have planned for or that I
could haha it's something that I could
never have planned for instead it
happened just because I was enthusiastic
about what I was doing and I was sharing
that enthusiasm with other people to me
there's the true beauty of making
useless things because it's this
acknowledgment that you don't always
know what the best answer is and it
turns off that voice in your head that
tells you that you know exactly how the
world works and maybe a toothbrush
helmet isn't the answer but at least
you're asking the question thank you
[Applause]